Teams and collaboration

You can only participate as an individual in this challenge.

Multiple accounts per user are not permitted, and neither is collaboration between users. Individuals and their submissions originating from multiple accounts will be immediately disqualified from the platform.

Code must not be shared privately. Any code that is shared, must be made available to all competition participants through the platform. (i.e. on the discussion boards).

Datasets and packages

The solution must use publicly-available, open-source packages only. Your models should not use any of the metadata provided.

You may use only the datasets provided for this competition. Automated machine learning tools such as automl are not permitted.

You may use pretrained models as long as they are openly available to everyone.

The data used in this competition is the sole property of Zindi and the competition host. You may not transmit, duplicate, publish, redistribute or otherwise provide or make available any competition data to any party not participating in the Competition (this includes uploading the data to any public site such as Kaggle or GitHub). You may upload, store and work with the data on any cloud platform such as Google Colab, AWS or similar, as long as 1) the data remains private and 2) doing so does not contravene Zindi’s rules of use.

You must notify Zindi immediately upon learning of any unauthorised transmission of or unauthorised access to the competition data, and work with Zindi to rectify any unauthorised transmission or access.

Your solution must not infringe the rights of any third party and you must be legally entitled to assign ownership of all rights of copyright in and to the winning solution code to Zindi.

Submissions and winning

You may make a maximum of 10 submissions per day. Your highest-scoring solution on the leaderboard at the end of the competition will be the one by which you are judged.

There is no private leaderboard for this challenge.

If two solutions earn identical scores on the leaderboard, the tiebreaker will be the date and time in which the submission was made (the earlier solution will win).

If the error metric requires probabilities to be submitted, do not set thresholds (or round your probabilities) to improve your place on the leaderboard. In order to ensure that the client receives the best solution Zindi will need the raw probabilities. This will allow the clients to set thresholds to their own needs.

You acknowledge and agree that Zindi may, without any obligation to do so, remove or disqualify an individual, team, or account if Zindi believes that such individual, team, or account is in violation of these rules. Entry into this competition constitutes your acceptance of these official competition rules.

Zindi is committed to providing solutions of value to our clients and partners. To this end, we reserve the right to disqualify your submission on the grounds of usability or value. This includes but is not limited to the use of data leaks or any other practices that we deem to compromise the inherent value of your solution.

Zindi also reserves the right to disqualify you and/or your submissions from any competition if we believe that you violated the rules or violated the spirit of the competition or the platform in any other way. The disqualifications are irrespective of your position on the leaderboard and completely at the discretion of Zindi.

Please refer to the FAQs and Terms of Use for additional rules that may apply to this competition. We reserve the right to update these rules at any time.



To participate, please complete this form (http://bit.ly/AIBootcamp20_hack); you will receive the competition secret code once you complete the form.

Kowope Mart is a Nigerian-based retail company with a vision to provide quality goods, education and automobile services to its customers at affordable price and reduce if not eradicate charges on card payments and increase customer satisfaction with credit rewards that can be used within the Mall. To achieve this, the company has partnered with DSBank on co-branded credit card with additional functionality such that customers can request for loan, pay for goods even with zero-balance and then pay back within an agreed period of time. This innovative strategy has increased sales for the company. However, there has been recent cases of credit defaults and Kowope Mart will like to have a system that profiles customers who are worthy of the card with minimum if not zero risk of defaulting.

You have been employed as a Data Scientist to leverage Machine learning to predict customers who are likely to default or not.

This is Qualification Competition for the Data Science Nigeria AI Bootcamp.


The error metric is Area Under the Curve.

Competition closes on 3 October 2020.

Final submissions must be received by 11:59 PM WAT (Nigeria time).

We reserve the right to update the contest timeline if necessary.




The data is a structure dataset pull from the Kowope Mart’s database with few important features that can be used to predict defaulters in retail network. The data sample has been split into train and test with a volume of 56,000 and 24,000.

The files for download are:
train.csv - you will use this to train your model.
test.csv - you will use this to test your model.
SampleSubmission.csv - is an example of what your submission file should look like. The order of the rows does not matter, but the names of the UIDs must be correct. You must predict growth_stage for the corresponding images.
Variables
Application_ID: Unique Customer Application Identification number

Risk Scoring features:

form_field1: Customer Credit worthiness score based on historical data
form_field2: A score that measures the number and riskiness of credit enquiries made by a borrower.

Severity features: Severity is a function of amount, time since default, and number of defaults

form_field3: Severity of default by the borrower on any loan(s).
form_field4: Severity of default by the borrower on auto loan(s).
form_field5: Severity of default by the borrower on education loan(s).

Credit features

form_field6: Minimum of credit available on all credit cards that is automatically renewed as debts are paid off on the customer’s cards (in NGN)
form_field7: Maximum of credit available on customer’s active credit lines (in NGN)
form_field8: Maximum of credit available on all active credit cards that is automatically renewed as debts are paid off on the customer’s cards (in NGN)
form_field9: Sum of available credit on credit cards that the borrower has missed 1 payment (in NGN)
form_field10: Total amount of credit available on accepted credit lines (in NGN)
form_field11: The amount of dues collected post-default where the due amount was more than 500 (in NGN)
form_field12: Sum of the amount due on active credit cards (in NGN)
form_field13: Annual amount paid towards all credit cards during the previous year (in NGN)
form_field14: Annual income (in NGN)
form_field15: The estimated market value of a property owned/used by the borrower (in NGN)

Credit card features:

form_field16: Number of active credit card that is automatically renewed as debts are paid off on which full credit limit is utilized by the borrower
form_field17: Number of active credit cards on which full credit limit is utilized by the borrower
form_field18: Number of active credit lines on which full credit limit is utilized by the borrower
form_field19: Number of active credit cards on which at least 75% credit limit is utilized by the borrower
form_field20: Number of active credit lines on which at least 75% credit limit is utilized by the borrower
form_field21: Average utilization of active revolving credit card loans (%)
form_field22: Average utilization of line on all active credit lines activated in last 2 years (%)
form_field23: Average utilization of line on all active credit cards activated in last 1 year (%)
form_field24: Average utilization of line on credit cards on which the borrower has missed 1 payment during the last 6 months (%)
form_field25: Average tenure of active revolving credit cards (in days)
form_field26: Tenure of oldest credit card among all active credit cards (in days)
form_field27: Tenure of oldest revolving credit card among all active revolving credit cards (in days)

Time-related features

form_field28: Number of days since last missed payment on any credit line
form_field29: Tenure of the oldest credit line (in days)
form_field30: Maximum tenure on all auto loans (in days)
form_field31: Maximum tenure on all education loans (in days)
form_field32: Sum of tenures (in months) of active credit cards
form_field33: Sum of tenures (in months) of active credit cards
form_field34: Number of active credit lines over the last 6 months on which the borrower has missed 1 payment
form_field35: Number of revolving credit cards over the last 2 years on which the borrower has missed 1 payment
form_field36: Number of active credit lines
form_field37: Number of credit cards with an active tenure of at least 2 years
form_field38: Number of credit lines activated in the last 2 years
form_field39: Number of credit lines on which the borrower has current delinquency

Percentage related features

form_field40: Utilization of line on active education loans (%)
form_field41: Utilization of line on active auto loans (%)

Other features

form_field42: Financial stress index of the borrower. This index is a function of collection trades, bankruptcies files, tax liens invoked, etc.
form_field43: Number of credit lines on which the borrower has never missed a payment in the last 2 years, yet considered as high-risk loans based on the market prediction of the economic scenario
form_field44: Ratio of the maximum amount due on all active credit lines and the sum of amounts due on all active credit lines
form_field45: Number of mortgage loans on which the borrower has missed 2 payments
form_field46: Number of auto loans on which the borrower has missed 2 payments
form_field47: Type of product that the applicant applied for. (C = Charge; L = Lending)
form_field48: Undefined Variable
form_field49: Undefined Variable
form_field50: Ratio of the minimum amount due on all active credit lines and the sum of amounts due on all active credit lines

Target features

default_status: defaulted or not. (yes:1, no: 0)